= mongo_mapper_acts_as_tree

This is a port of classic Rails {acts_as_tree}[http://github.com/rails/acts_as_tree] to Mongo Mapper. Specify this MongoMapper plugin if you want to model a tree structure by providing a parent association and a children association. This requires that you have a foreign key, which by default is called parent_id.

It has (almost) the same functionality and passes the original test-suite. Scope needs to be defined as symbol or array of symbols. It does not work (by principle) for Embedded Documents. But in contrast to the original acts_as_tree gem inheritance is supported (in this case called Single Collection Inheritance, ActiveRecord calls it Single Table Inheritance). Please note, it is not yet optimized and therefore issues more queries than necessary.

== Installation

mongo_mapper_acts_as_list is available as RubyGem:

  gem install mongo_mapper_acts_as_tree
  
== Example

  class Category
    include MongoMapper::Document

    plugin MongoMapper::Plugins::ActsAsTree

    key :parent_id, ObjectId
    acts_as_tree :order => :name
  end

  Example:
  root
   \_ child1
        \_ subchild1
        \_ subchild2

  root      = Category.create(:name => "root")
  child1    = root.children.create(:name => "child1")
  subchild1 = child1.children.create(:name => "subchild1")

  root.parent   # => nil
  child1.parent # => root
  root.children # => [child1]
  root.children.first.children.first # => subchild1

If you want acts_as_tree to work in a Single Collection Inheritance scenario, just add :polymorphic => true to the options

  class Page
    include MongoMapper::Document

    plugin MongoMapper::Plugins::ActsAsTree

    key :name, String
    key :parent_id, ObjectId
    acts_as_tree :order => :name, :polymorphic => true
  end

  class SubPage < Page
    key :some_irrelevant_key, String
  end

  Example:
  root
   \_ child1
        \_ subchild1
        \_ subchild2

  root      = Page.create(:name => "root")
  child1    = root.children.create(:name => "child1") # creates a page
  subchild1 = SubPage.create(:name => "subchild1", :parent_id => child1.id)

  root.parent   # => nil
  child1.parent # => root
  root.children # => [child1]
  root.children.first.children.first # => subchild1
  subchild1.ancestors # [child1, root]


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Original Rails acts_as_tree Copyright (c) 2007 David Heinemeier Hansson, released under the MIT license
